Create a class called BankAccount that has the methods withdraw and deposit with no implementation.
Create a class called SavingsAccount that inherits from BankAccount. SavingsAccount should have a constructor that only takes in a self argument. This constructor sets a property called balance to 500. (This should be the minimum balance at any given time).

In the SavingsAccount class, implement the deposit method that takes in cash deposit amounts, updates the balance accordingly and then returns the balance. For a negative deposit amounts, return Invalid deposit amount.
In the SavingsAccount class, implement the withdraw method that takes in the cash withdrawal amount, deducts this amount from the current balance and returns the balance. This method should NEVER allow the balance to get below 500. (Check for this condition and output Cannot withdraw beyond the minimum account balance if it happens). Also, output Cannot withdraw beyond the current account balance if withdrawal amount is greater than current balance. For a negative withdrawal amount, return Invalid withdraw amount.
Create a class called CurrentAccount that inherits from BankAccount. CurrentAccount should have a constructor that only takes in the self argument and sets a property called balance to 0.

In the CurrentAccount class, implement a deposit method that takes in cash deposit amounts, updates the balance accordingly and then returns the balance. For a negative deposit amount, return Invalid deposit amount.
In the CurrentAccount class, implement a withdraw method that takes in the cash withdrawal amount, deducts this amount from the current balance and returns the balance. For a negative withdrawal amount, return Invalid withdraw amount. Withdrawing more than the current balance should fail with message Cannot withdraw beyond the current account balance